The next subject I'd like to talk a little
bit about is switch statements which will
look really similar to what you're
used to seeing in JavaScript.
I'm gonna hop back over to my code
editor and find the switch.go file.
Once again, I'm going to uncomment the
whole file for now, and start at the top.
So in our main function, there are a few
different styles of switch statements that
mainly depend on what we're starting
with in terms of a variable.
So our first example here,
we have a switch expression
with the variable called city.
And so that's looking at
a variable defined on line 9,
we're resetting this to a string,
doesn't have a value yet but
imagine down the road it was
assigned to something specific.
And then our case statements
are going to check and
see if the variable city equals one
of the case strings as an example.
So if city equals Des Moines,
print the line you live in Iowa.
An interesting thing about
switch statements and
go is it does allow you
to have kind of an or, so
if the city equals either Minneapolis or
St Paul, you live in Minnesota.
And if the string equals Madison,
you live in Wisconsin.
And there's a default case statement of a
if none of these match, what do you wanna
do about it, and in this case, we print
the line, you're not from around here.
And so the main difference that I
would like to point out just, again,
is that ability to have kind
of like an order structure,
like if either of these things are equal,
go ahead and execute this code.
The second structure is missing
that original variable here.
So you'll notice that switch doesn't
have a variable to the right of it.
But it does have a variable that's
been defined elsewhere at the top.
So here we're working with var
i which is set to some integer.
And then within the case statements,
we're now looking at a conditional.
Because we're not checking for
strict equality between like the variable
city and the string Des Moines.
We're now looking to see if integer
the variable i is greater than 10,
less than 10.
And there's that default statement in
case none of those match once again.
And the last thing I wanna
bring up around switch
statements has to do
with the fall through.
And so, go will not automatically
continue through the case statements.
Once it matches 1,
it will stop executing code.
Unless you include this fall through line,
which is on line 40.
So in this case,
we have our i set to a value of 9.
And so, if we're looking at our switch
statement here, that first line on 38,
the case i does not equal
10 would return true.
So we'd execute the code that's on line
39, we'd print the line does not equal 10.
But because that fall through line
is there go is gonna keep going.
It's gonna execute that
next case statement and
check to see if i is also less than 10,
greater than 10, and then the default.
So it's a way to control whether or not
you want your case statement to continue
executing code once it reaches
something that returns true.